.\" Written by Kurt Lust, kurt.lust@uantwerpen.be for the LUMI consortium.
.TH man 1 "3 July 2023" "1.1" " overview"

.SH NAME
lumi-CPEtools \- Various CPE-dependent tools, e.g., to test process and thread
affinity.

.SH DESCRIPTION
CPEtools contains various small tools to check which libraries a program links
to or to experiment how programs of various types would start on LUMI to
refine batch scripts. Some tools are specific for a particular CPE.

Commands:
.TP
\fBxldd\fR
An ldd-like program to show which versions of Cray PE libraries are used by an
executable.

.TP
\fBserial_check\fR
Serial program can print core and host allocation and affinity information.

.TP
\fBomp_check\fR
OpenMP program can print core and host allocation and affinity information.

.TP
\fBmpi_check\fR
MPI program can print core and host allocation and affinity information.
It is also suitable to test heterogeneous jobs.

.TP
\fBhybrid_check\fR
Hybrid MPI/OpenMP program can print core and host allocation and affinity information.
It is also suitable to test heterogeneous jobs.
It encompasses the full functionality of \fBserial_check\fR, \fBomp_check\fR and
\fBmpi_check\fR.

.TP
\fBgpu_check\fR
A hybrid MPI/OpenMP program that prints information about thread and GPU binding/mapping
on Cray EX Bardpeak nodes as in LUMI-G, based on the ORNL hello_jobstep program.
\fB(AMD GPU nodes only)\fR

.TP
\fBhpcat\fR
A HPC Affinity Tracker tool developed by HPE to display thread and task binding
to CPU hardware threads, accelerators and NICs.

.SH SEE ALSO
xldd(1), serial_check(1), omp_check(1), mpi_check(1), hybrid_check(1), hpcat(1)

.SH AUTHOR
Tools by Kurt Lust (Kurt.Lust@uantwerpen.be), Peter Larsson (ypetla@kth.se) and
Jean-Yves Vet (HPE), manual pages by Kurt Lust.
