.\" Written by Kurt Lust, kurt.lust@uantwerpen.be for the LUMI consortium.
.TH man 1 "3 July 2023" "1.1" "serial_check (lumi-CPEtools) command"

.SH NAME
serial_check \- Simple "Hello, World!"-style serial program

.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBserial_check\fR is a simple "Hello, World!"-style serial program
that can print the core and host on which it is running, and optionally
also the NUMA affinity mask.

One can also label each call to \fBserial_check\fR
which is great for
distinguishing between the output of different instances of the program
in case you want to experiment with starting multiple executables in a
single job.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB--help\fR
Print help information about the command
.TP
\fB\-l\fR \fI\,LABEL\/\fR, \fB\--label\fR \fI\,LABEL\/\fR
Label the output of this process with \fI\,LABEL\/\fR. This automatically
enables displaying labels.
.TP
\fB\-w\fR \fI\,TIME\/\fR
keeps the CPU busy for approximately \fI\,TIME\/\fR seconds
computing the surface of the Mandelbrot fractal with a naive
Monte Carlo algorithm so that a user can logon to the node
and see what is happening. At the end it will print the
virtual CPU of the process again.
.TP
\fB\-n\fR
Show the NUMA affinity mask: Once ASCII character per virtual core,
where a number or capital letter denotes that the core can be used
and the number or letter denotes the NUMA group (or a * if the
number of the NUMA group would be 36 or larger) and a dot denotes
that the core is not used.
.TP
\fB\-r\fR
Numeric representation of the affinity mask as a series of core
or ranges of cores.
.TP
\fB--no-hostname\fR
Do not show the hostname in the output.
.TP
\fB--no-cpu\fR
Do not show the CPU number in the output
.TP
\fB--fp\fR
"Physical output format" showing host, CPU and numeric mask.
.TP
\fB--fr\fR
"Relative output format" or "reproducible output format", showing
the numeric mask, but not the hostname or CPU number.

.SH EXAMPLE

The following is a job script to start a heterogeneous job in Slurm that
shows many features of this program:

.EX
#! /bin/bash
#SBATCH --time=2:00
#SBATCH --ntasks=1 --cpus-per-task=8

serial_check -l test -w 15 -n -r
.EE

This script simulates a \fBserial_check\fR process labeled exe1.
It will also simulate some load during
approximately 15 seconds, and before and after that print the core and node on
which the process is running and the affinity mask in the two supported formats.
You may have to add the appropriate \fBmodule load\fR commands to the script
to ensure that \fBhybrid_check\fR works, and the script also assumes that it
is in the search path for executables. You also have to add the partition and
account to use.

.SH SEE ALSO
omp_check(1), mpi_check(1), hybrid_check(1), gpu_check(1), lumi-CPEtools(1)

.SH AUTHOR
Kurt Lust (Kurt.Lust@uantwerpen.be) for the LUMI consortium
